

WELKER: Okay, let’s move on to American families and the economy. One of the issues that’s most important to them is health care, as you both know. Today, there was a key vote on a new Supreme Court Justice Amy Coney Barrett, and healthcare is at the center of her confirmation fight. Over 20 million Americans get their health insurance through the Affordable Care Act. It’s headed to the Supreme Court, and your administration, Mr. President, is advocating for the court to overturn it. If the Supreme Court does overturn that law, those 20 million Americans could lose their health insurance almost overnight. So what would you do if those people have their health insurance taken away? You have two minutes uninterrupted.

TRUMP: First of all, I’ve already done something that nobody thought was possible. Through the legislature, I terminated the individual mandate. That is the worst part of Obamacare, as we call it. The individual mandate – where you have to pay a fortune for the privilege of not having to pay for bad health insurance. I terminated it; it’s gone. Now it’s in court, because Obamacare is no good. But then I made a decision, ‘Run it as well as you can’ — to my people, great people — ‘Run it as well as you can.’ I could have gone the other route and made everybody very unhappy. They ran it. Premiums are down, everything’s down. Here’s the problem. No matter how well you run it, it’s no good. What we’d like to do is terminate it. We have the individual mandate done. I don’t know that it’s going to work. If we don’t win, we will have to run it and we’ll have Obamacare, but it will be better run. But it no longer is Obamacare. Because without the individual mandate, it’s much different. Pre-existing conditions will always stay. What I would like to do is a much better health care, much better. We’ll always protect people with pre-existing — so I’d like to terminate Obamacare, come up with a brand new beautiful health care. The Democrats will do it because there’ll be tremendous pressure on them. And we might even have the House by that time. And I think we’re going to win the House, okay? You’ll see, but I think we’re gonna win the House. But come up with a better health care, always protecting people with pre-existing conditions — and one thing very important. We have 180 million people out there that have great private health care, far more than we’re talking about with Obamacare. Joe Biden is going to terminate all of those policies. These are people that love their health care, people that have been successful — middle income people — been successful. They have 180 million plans, 180 million people, families under what he wants to do, which will basically be socialized medicine. He won’t even have a choice. They want to terminate 180 million plans. We have done an incredible job on health care. And we’re going to do even better.

WELKER: OK. Vice President Biden, yes, this is for you. Your health care plan calls for building on Obamacare. So my question is, what is your plan if the law is ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme Court? You have two minutes uninterrupted.

BIDEN: What I’m going to do is pass Obamacare with a public option — become Bidencare. Public option is an option that says that if you, in fact, do not have the wherewithal to be — if you qualify for Medicaid, and you do not have the wherewithal in your state to get Medicaid, you automatically are enrolled, providing competition for insurance companies. That’s what’s going to happen. Secondly, we’re going to make sure we reduce the premiums and reduce drug prices by making sure that there’s competition that doesn’t exist now by allowing Medicare to negotiate drug prices with the insurance companies. Thirdly, the idea that I want to eliminate private insurance — the reason why I had such a fight for, with 20 candidates for the nomination, was I support private insurance. That’s why I did not — not one single person, private insurance, would lose their insurance under my plan, nor did they under Obamacare. They did not lose their insurance, unless they chose they wanted to go to something else. Lastly, we’re going to make sure we’re in a situation that we actually protect pre-existing — there’s no way he can protect pre-existing conditions. None, zero, you can’t do it in the ether. He’s been talking about this for a long time. There is no — he’s never come up with a plan. I guess we’re gonna get the pre-existing condition plan the same time we get the infrastructure plan that we waited since 17, 18, 19, 20. The fact  — I still have a little, a few more minutes, I know you’re getting anxious — the fact is that he’s already cost the American people because of his terrible handling of the COVID virus and economic spillover. 10 million people have lost their private insurance, and he wants to take away 22 million more people who have been under Obamacare, and over 110 million people with pre-existing conditions. And all the people from COVID are going to have pre-existing conditions. What are they gonna do?

WELKER: I have a follow up for you, Vice President Biden, it relates to something that President Trump said. He’s accusing you of wanting socialized medicine. What do you say to people who have concerns that your health care plan, which includes a government insurance option, takes the country one step closer to a health care system run entirely by the government? What’s your response to that?

BIDEN: I say, it’s ridiculous. It’s like saying that, you know, we’re the idea that, the fact that there’s a public option that people can choose, that makes it a socialist plan? Look, the difference between the president — I think health care is not a privilege, it’s a right. Everyone should have the right to have affordable health care. And I am very proud of my plan. It’s gotten endorsed by all the major labor unions as well as, as well as a whole range of other people who in fact, are concerned in the medical field. This is something that’s going to save people’s lives. And this is going to give some people an opportunity, an opportunity to have health care for their children, how many of you home are worried and rolling around in bed at night wondering what in God’s name are you going to do if you get sick? Because you’ve lost your home insurance, your health insurance, your company’s gone under. We have to provide health insurance for people at an affordable rate, and that’s what I’d do.

WELKER: President Trump, your response.

TRUMP: Excuse me, he was there for 47 years — he didn’t do it. He was now there as Vice President for eight years. And it’s not like it was 25 years ago, it was three and three quarters. It was just a little while ago, right? Less than four years ago. He didn’t do anything. He didn’t do it. He wants socialized medicine. And it’s not that he wants it, his vice president — I mean, she is more liberal than Bernie Sanders and wants it even more. Bernie Sanders wants it, the Democrats want it. You’re going to have socialized medicine. Just like you went on with fracking — ‘We’re not going to have fracking, we’re going to stop fracking, we’re going to stop fracking.’ Then he goes to Pennsylvania after he gets the nomination — where he got very lucky to get it. And he goes to Pennsylvania, and he says, ‘Oh, we’re gonna have fracking.’ And you never asked that question. And by the way, so far, I respect very much the way you’re handling this, I have to say. But somebody should ask the question. He goes for a year —

WELKER: We do have a number of — we have a number of topics – 

TRUMP: No, no, but that’s a big question —

WELKER: We’re gonna get to it —

TRUMP: It’s the same thing with socialized medicine.

WELKER: Vice President, your response please.

BIDEN: My response is people deserve to have affordable health care — period. Period, period, period. And the Bidencare proposal will, in fact, provide for that affordable health care, lower premiums. What we’re going to do is going to cost some money; it’s going to cost over $750 billion over 10 years to do it. And they’re going to have lower premiums, you can buy into the better plans, the cheaper plans, lower your premiums, deal with unexpected billing, and have your drug prices drop significantly. He keeps talking about it. He hasn’t done a thing for anybody on health care, not a thing.

TRUMP: Kristen, when he says —

WELKER: Very quickly, then I want to talk about what’s happening on Capitol Hill. 

TRUMP: When he says public option, he is talking about socialized medicine and health care. When he talks about a public option, he’s talking about destroying your Medicare, totally destroying — and destroying your Social Security. And this whole country will come down. You know, Bernie Sanders tried it in his state. He tried it in his state. His governor was a very liberal governor, they wanted to make it work —

WELKER: Let’s see if —

TRUMP: — it was impossible to work, it doesn’t work —

WELKER: Vice President Biden, your response.

BIDEN: He’s a very confused guy, he thinks he’s running against somebody else. He’s running against Joe Biden. I beat all those other people because I disagreed with them. Joe Biden, he’s running against. And the idea that we’re in a situation and are going to destroy Medicare — this is the guy that the actuary of Medicare said, ‘If in fact’ — and, social security — ‘If, in fact, he continues to withhold his plan to withhold the tax on Social Security, Social Security will be bankrupt by 2023, with no way to make up for it. This is a guy who’s tried to cut Medicare. So I don’t know. I mean, the idea that Donald Trump is lecturing me on Social Security and Medicare? Come on.

TRUMP: He tried to get rid of —

WELKER: Ten seconds, Mr. President, then I have to go to another question —

TRUMP: — he tried to hurt Social Security years ago, years ago. Go back and look at the records. He tried to hurt Social Security years ago. One thing —

WELKER: Alright, let’s move on. Mr. President I have to move on to the next question.

TRUMP: They say the stock market will boom if I’m elected. If he’s elected, the stock market will crash.

WELKER: OK, let’s move on to the next question.

BIDEN: May I respond?

WELKER: Very quickly.

BIDEN: The idea that the stock market is booming is his only measure of what’s happening. Where I come from, in Scranton and Claymont, the people don’t live off of the stock market. Just in the last three, three years during this crisis, the billionaires in this country made, according to the Wall Street, $700 billion more dollars. $700 billion more dollars. Because that’s his only measure. What happens to the ordinary people out there? What happens to them?

TRUMP: 401k’s are through the roof. People’s stock are through the roof —

WELKER: We’re going to move on.

TRUMP: And he doesn’t come from Scranton. That’s like, what — he lived there for a short period of time before he even knew —

WELKER: We’re gonna move on —

TRUMP: And he left. And the people of Pennsylvania will show you that.

WELKER: — to my next question, gentlemen. As of tonight, more than 12 million people are out of work. And as of tonight, 8 million more Americans have fallen into poverty, and more families are going hungry every day. Those hit hardest are women and people of color. They see Washington fighting over a relief bill. Mr. President, why haven’t you been able to get them the help they need? 30 seconds here.

TRUMP: Because Nancy Pelosi doesn’t want to approve it. I do.

WELKER: But you’re the president.

TRUMP: I do. But I still have to get, unfortunately — that’s one of the reasons I think we’re going to take over the House, because of her. Nancy Pelosi doesn’t want to approve anything. Because she’d love to have some victories on a date called November 3rd. Nancy Pelosi does not want to approve it. We are ready, willing and able to do something. Don’t forget, we’ve already approved three plans. And it’s gone through, including the Democrats, in all fairness. This one she doesn’t want. It’s near the election, because she thinks it helps her politically. I think it hurts her politically.

WELKER: Alright, Mr. Vice President —

BIDEN: You know, the Republican leader in the United States Senate said he can’t pass it — he will not be able to pass it. He does not have Republican votes. Why isn’t he talking to his Republican friends?

WELKER: Let me follow up with you, Vice President Biden – 

TRUMP: If we made a deal, the Republicans would pass it —

WELKER: Let me ask Vice President Biden a question. You are the leader of the Democratic Party. Why have you not pushed the Democrats to get a deal for the American people?

BIDEN: Well, I have and they have pushed it. Look, they passed this act all the way back in the beginning of the summer. This is like — it’s not new. It’s been out there. This HEROES Act has been sitting there. And look at what’s happening. When I was in charge of the Recovery Act with $800 billion, I was able to get $145 billion to local communities that have to balance their budget to states that have to balance their budgets, so then they have to fire fire — they have to fire firefighters, teachers, first responders, law enforcement officers, so they could keep their cities and counties running. He will not support that. They have not done a thing for them. And Mitch McConnell said, ‘Let him go bankrupt. Let him go bankrupt.’ Come on. What’s the matter with these guys.

TRUMP: The bill that was passed in the House was a bailout of badly run high crime, Democrat, all run by Democrats, cities and states. It was a way of getting a lot of money, billions and billions of dollars to these cities. It was also a way of getting a lot of money from our people’s pockets to people that come into our country illegally. We were going to take care of everything for them. And what that does, and I’d love to do that, I’d love to help them. But what that does, everybody all over the world will start pouring into our country. We can’t do it. This was a way of taking care of them. This was a way of spending on things that had nothing to do with COVID, as for your question, but it was really a big bailout for badly run Democrat cities and states.

WELKER: I want —

BIDEN: If I get elected, I’m not gonna — I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I’m gonna be an American president. I don’t see red states and blue states. What I see is American, United States. And folks, every single state out there finds themself in trouble. They’re going to start laying off, whether they’re red or blue. Cops, firefighters, first responders, teachers — because they have to balance their budget. And the founders were smart. They allowed the federal government to deficit spend to compensate for the United States of America.

WELKER: I want to talk about the minimum wage, gentlemen. Mr. Vice President, we are talking a lot about struggling small businesses and business owners these days. Do you think this is the right time to ask them to raise the minimum wage? You, of course, support a $15 minimum wage.

BIDEN: I do, because I think one of the things we’re gonna have to do is we’re gonna have to bail them out, too. We should be bailing them out now, those small businesses. You’ve got one in six of them going under. They’re not going to be able to make it back. They passed a package that allows us to be able to call PPP, money’s supposed to go to help them do everything from organize how they could deal with their businesses being open safely. Schools, how they can make classrooms smaller, how they can hire more teachers, how they can put ventilation systems in. They need the help, the businesses, as well as the schools, need the help. But this, these guys will not help them. He is not giving them any of the money.

WELKER: We are going to move on to immigration —

TRUMP: One thing very quickly. He said we have to help our small businesses — by raising the minimum wage? That’s not helping. I think it should be a state option. Alabama is different than New York, New York is different from Vermont. Every state is different. It should be a state option. We have to help, it’s very important. We have to help our small businesses —

WELKER: You said —

TRUMP: How are you helping your small businesses when you’re forcing wages. What’s going to happen and what’s been proven to happen is when you do that these small businesses fire many of their employees.

WELKER: You said very recently you would consider raising the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour —

TRUMP: Say it?

WELKER: You said recently you would consider raising the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour. Is that still the case?

TRUMP: What I’d really like, and I would consider it to an extent. What I’d really like — in a second administration — but not to a level that’s going to put all these businesses out of business. It should be a state option. Look, I’ve looked at different places, I know different places. They’re all different. Some places, $15 is not so bad. In other places, other states, $15 would be —

WELKER: OK, President Trump, thank you. Quick response, Vice President Biden.

BIDEN: No one should work two jobs, one job and be below poverty. People are making 6, 7, 8 bucks an hour. These first responders we all clap for as they come down the street, because they’ve allowed us to make it. What’s happening? They deserve a minimum wage of $15. Anything below that puts you below the poverty level. And there is no evidence that when you raise the minimum wage, businesses go out of business. That is simply not true.