

WELKER: We’re going to talk about immigration. We’re going to talk about immigration, now, gentlemen, and we’re going to talk about families within this context. Mr. President, your administration separated children from their parents at the border, at least 4000 kids. You’ve since reversed your zero tolerance policy, but the United States can’t locate the parents of more than 500 children. So how will these families ever be reunited?

TRUMP: Children are brought here by coyotes and lots of bad people, cartels, and they’re brought here and they used to use them to get into our country. We now have a stronger border as we’ve ever had. We’re over 400 miles of brand new wall, you see the numbers, and we let people in, but they have to come in legally and they come in through – 

WELKER: But how will you reunite these kids with their families?

TRUMP: Let me just tell you. They built cages. You know, they used to say I built the cages. And then they had a picture in a certain newspaper. There was a picture of these horrible cages and they said, ‘Look at these cages, President Trump built them.’ And then it was determined they were built in 2014. That was him.

WELKER: Do you have a plan to reunite the kids?

TRUMP: Yes, we’re working on it very — we’re trying very hard. But a lot of these kids come out without the parents, they come over through cartels and through coyotes and through gangs.

WELKER: Vice President Biden, let me bring you into this conversation. Quick response and then another question to you.

BIDEN: These 500 plus kids came with parents. They separated them at the border to make it a disincentive to come to begin with. Big, real tough, we’re really strong. And guess what? They cannot — it’s not, coyotes didn’t bring them over, their parents were with them. They got separated from their parents. And it makes us a laughingstock and violates every notion of who we are as a nation.

WELKER: Let me ask you a follow up —

TRUMP: Kristen, they did it, we changed the policy. They did it. We changed it. They set the cages. Who built the cages?

BIDEN: So let’s talk about —

TRUMP: Who built the cages, Joe?

BIDEN: Let’s talk about what we’re talking about. What happened? Parents were ripped — their kids were ripped from their arms and separated. And now they cannot find over 500 sets of those parents and those kids are alone. Nowhere to go, nowhere to go. It’s criminal. It’s criminal.

WELKER: Let me ask you —

TRUMP: Kristen, I will say this. They went down, we brought reporters and everything. They are so well taken care of. They’re in facilities that were so clean —

WELKER: But some of them haven’t been reunited —

TRUMP: But just ask one question. Who built the cages? I’d love you to ask that, who built the cages?

WELKER: Let me ask about your immigration policy, Mr. Vice President. The Obama administration did fail to deliver immigration reform, which had been a key promise during the administration. It also presided over record deportations as well as family detentions at the border before changing course. So why should voters trust you with an immigration overhaul now?

BIDEN: Because we made a mistake. It took too long to get it right. Took too long to get it right. I’ll be President of the United States, not Vice President of the United States. And the fact is, I’ve made it very clear, within 100 days, I’m going to send to the United States Congress a pathway to citizenship for over 11 million undocumented people. And all those so called Dreamers, those DACA kids, they’re going to be immediately certified again, to be able to stay in this country, and put on a path to citizenship. The idea that they are being sent home by this guy, and they want to do that, is they go to a country they’ve never seen before. I can imagine you’re five years old, your parents are taking you across the Rio Grande River and it’s and it’s illegal. You say ‘Oh, no, Mom, leave me here. I’m not gonna go with you.’ They’ve been here. Many of them are model citizens. Over 20,000 of them are first responders out there taking care of people during this crisis. We owe them. We owe them.

WELKER: President Trump, your response.

TRUMP: Kristen, he had eight years to do what he said he was going to do. And I’ve changed without having a specific — we got rid of catch and release, we got rid of a lot of horrible things that they put in and that they lived with. But he had eight years he was vice president. He did nothing except build cages to keep children in.

WELKER: Vice President Biden, your response?

BIDEN: Wrong. The catch and release, you know what he’s talking about there? If in fact, you had a family, came across, they’re arrested. They, in fact, were given a date to show up for their hearing. They were released. And guess what, they showed up for a hearing. This is the first President in the history of the United States of America that anybody seeking asylum has to do it in another country. That’s never happened before in America. That’s never happened before in America. You come to the United States and you make your case. That I seek asylum based on the following premise, why I deserve it under American law. They’re sitting in squalor on the other side of the river.

WELKER: President Trump, there is —

TRUMP: It’s so important. It just shows that he has no understanding of immigration or the laws. Catch and release is a disaster. A murderer would come in, a rapist would come in, a very bad person would come in — we would take their name, we have to release them into our country. And then you say they come back. Less than 1% of the people come back.

BIDEN: Not true.

TRUMP: We have to send ICE out and Border Patrol out to find them. We would say, ‘Come back in two years, three years — we’re going to give you a court case. You did Perry Mason, we’re going to give you a court case. When you say they come back, they don’t come back, Joe. They never come back. Only the really — I hate to say this — but those with the lowest IQ, they might come back. But there are very very few. 

WELKER: OK, President Trump, let’s give Vice President Biden a chance to respond, and then we’re going to move on to the next section.

TRUMP: You don’t know the law, Joe.

WELKER: Vice President Biden, your response.

BIDEN: I know the law. What he’s telling you is simply not true.

TRUMP: They don’t come back.

BIDEN: Check it out.

WELKER: Alright, let’s move on —

TRUMP: But we don’t have to worry about it because I terminated it. So we don’t have to worry about it.

WELKER: Alright, let’s move on to the next section —

BIDEN: You have 525 kids not knowing where in God’s name they’re going to be and lost their parents.

TRUMP: Go ahead.
