

WELKER: Gentlemen, we’re running out of time so we gotta get on to climate change, please. You both have very different visions on climate change. President Trump, you say that environmental regulations have hurt jobs in the energy sector. Vice President Biden, you have said you see addressing climate change as an opportunity to create new jobs. For each of you, how would you both combat climate change and support job growth at the same time? Starting with you, President Trump, you have two minutes uninterrupted.

TRUMP: So we have the trillion trees program, we have so many different programs. I do love the environment, but what I want is the cleanest, crystal clear water, the cleanest air. We have the best, lowest number in carbon emissions, which is a big standard that I noticed Obama goes with all the time. Not Joe. I haven’t heard Joe use the term because I’m not sure he knows what it represents or means, but I have heard Obama use it. And we have the best carbon emission numbers that we’ve had in 35 years. Under this administration, we are working so well with industry, but here’s what we can’t do — Look at China, how filthy it is. Look at Russia. Look at India. It’s filthy. The air is filthy. The Paris Accord, I took us out because we were going to have to spend trillions of dollars and we were treated very unfairly. When they put us in there, they did us a great disservice. They were going to take away our businesses. I will not sacrifice tens of millions of jobs, thousands and thousands of companies because of the Paris Accord. It was so unfair. China doesn’t kick in until 2030. Russia goes back to a low standard and we kicked in right away. It would have been — It would have been– It would have destroyed our businesses. So, you ready? We have done an incredible job environmentally. We have the cleanest air, the cleanest water and the best carbon emission standards that we’ve seen in many, many years.

WELKER: Vice President Biden —

TRUMP: And we haven’t destroyed our industries.

WELKER: Vice President Biden, two minutes to you uninterrupted.

BIDEN: Climate change, climate warming, global warming is an existential threat to humanity. We have a moral obligation to deal with it. And we’re told by all the leading scientists in the world we don’t have much time. We’re going to pass the point of no return within the next eight to 10 years. Four more years of this man eliminating all the regulations that were put in by us to clean up the climate, to clean up — to limit the — limit of emissions, will put us in a position where we’re going to be in real trouble. Here’s where we have a great opportunity. I was able to get both all the environmental organizations as well as labor, the people worried about jobs, to support my climate plan. Because what it does, it will create millions of new, good-paying jobs. We’re going to invest in, for example, 500,000 — 50,000, excuse me, 50,000 charging stations on our highways so that we can own the electric car market in the future. In the meantime, China’s doing that. We’re going to be in a position where we’re going to see to it that we’re going to take 4 million existing billion, buildings and 2 million existing homes and retrofit them so they don’t leak as much energy, saving hundreds of millions of barrels of oil in the process and creating significant number of jobs. And by the way, the whole idea of what this is all going to do, it’s going to create millions of jobs and it’s going to clean the environment. Our health and our jobs are at stake. That’s what’s happening. And what — right now, by the way, Wall Street firm has indicated that my plan — my plan will, in fact, create 18.6 million jobs, 7 million more than his. This from Wall Street and I’ll create $1 trillion more in economic growth than his proposal does, not on climate just on the economy.

WELKER: President Trump, your response —

TRUMP: They came out and said very strongly, ‘$6,500 will be taken away from families under his plan’, that his plan is an economic disaster. If you look at what he wants to do, you know the, if you look at his plan, his environmental plan, you know who developed it? AOC+3. They know nothing about the climate. I mean, she’s got a good line of stuff, but she knows nothing about the climate. And they’re all hopping through hoops for AOC+3. Look, their real plan costs $100 trillion. If we had the best year in the history of our country for 100 years, we would not even come close to a number like that. When he says buildings, they want to take buildings down because they want to make bigger windows into smaller windows. As far as they’re concerned, if you had no window it would be a lovely thing. This is the craziest plan that anybody has ever seen. And this wasn’t done by smart people. This wasn’t done by anybody. Frankly, I don’t even know how it can be good politically. They want to spend $100 trillion. That’s their real number. He’s trying to say it was six. It’s $100 trillion. They want to knock down buildings and build new buildings with little tiny, small windows and many other things. And many other things–

WELKER: Alright — okay, let me have the vice president respond and we’re running out of time and we have a lot more questions to get to. So let’s hear from the Vice President. I have a number of more questions.

BIDEN: I don’t know where he comes from. I don’t know where he comes up with these numbers. $100 trillion? Give me a break. This plan was — This plan has been endorsed by every major — every major environmental group and every labor group. Labor. Because they know the future lies, the future lies in us being able to breathe. And they know they’re good jobs in getting us there. And by the way, the fastest growing industry in America are –is, is, is the electric — excuse me, solar energy and wind. He thinks wind causes cancer, windmills. It’s the fastest growing jobs and they pay good prevailing wages, 45, 50 bucks an hour. We can grow and we can be cleaner, if we go the route I’m proposing.

WELKER: President Trump — please respond and then I have some follow ups.

TRUMP: Excuse me. We are energy independent for the first time. We don’t need all of these countries that we had a fight, war over because we needed their energy. We are energy independent. I know more about wind than you do. It’s extremely expensive, kills all the birds, it’s very intermittent. It’s got a lot of problems and they happen to make the windmills in both Germany and China. And the fumes coming up — if you’re a believer in carbon emission, the fumes coming up to make — make these massive windmills is more than anything that we’re talking about with natural gas, which is very clean. One other thing —

BIDEN: Find me a scientist that says that.

TRUMP: Solar. I love solar, but solar doesn’t quite have it yet. It’s not powerful enough yet to — to really run our big beautiful factories that we need to compete with the world —

BIDEN: False.

TRUMP: So, it’s all a pipe dream, but you know what we’ll do? We’re gonna have the greatest economy in the world. But if you want to kill the economy, get rid of your oil industry. You want – and what about fracking?

WELKER: Alright. Let me allow Vice President Biden to respond —

BIDEN: I have never said I oppose fracking.

TRUMP: You said it on tape.

BIDEN: I did? Show the tape. Put it on your website.

TRUMP: I’ll put it on.

BIDEN: Put it on the website. The fact of the matter is he’s flat lying.

WELKER: Would you rule out banning fracking?

BIDEN: I do rule out banning fracking because the answer we need — we need other industries to transition to get to, ultimately, a complete zero emissions by 2025. What I will do with fracking over time is make sure that we can capture the emissions from the fracking. Capture the emissions from gas. We can do that and we can do that by investing money into — it’s a transition to that.

WELKER: I have one more question —

TRUMP: Excuse me. He was against fracking. He said it. I will show that to you tomorrow. ‘I am against fracking’, until he got the nomination, went to Pennsylvania, then he said — you know what, Pennsylvania? He’ll be against it very soon because his party is totally against it.

BIDEN: Fracking on federal land, I said, no fracking and oil on federal land —

WELKER: Let me ask this final question in this section and then I want to move on to our final section. President Trump, people of color are much more likely to live near oil refineries and chemical plants. In Texas there are families who worry the plants near them are making them sick. Your administration has rolled back regulations on these kinds of facilities. Why should these families give you another four years in office?

TRUMP: The families that we’re talking about are employed heavily and they are making a lot of money, more money than they’ve ever made. If you look at the kind of numbers that we produce for Hispanic, or Black, or Asian, it’s nine times greater, the percentage gain than it was under — in three years — than it was under eight years of the two of them, to put it nicely. Nine times more. Now, somebody lives — I have not heard the numbers or the statistics that you’re saying — but they’re making a tremendous amount of money. Economically, we saved it. And I saved it again a number of months ago when oil was crashing because of the pandemic. We saved it. We got — say what you want of that relationship, we got Saudi Arabia, Mexico and Russia to cut back, way back. We saved our oil industry and now it’s very vibrant and everybody has very inexpensive gasoline. Remember that.

WELKER: Vice President Biden, your response and then we’re going to have a final question for both of you.

BIDEN: My response is that those people live on what they call ‘fence lines’. He doesn’t understand this. They live near chemical plants that, in fact, pollute. Chemical plants and oil plants and refineries that pollute. I used to live near that when I was growing up in Claymont, Delaware. And all the more oil refineries in Marcus Hook and the Delaware River than there is any place, including in Houston at the time. When my mom would get in the car when there were first frost to drive me to school, turned on the windshield wipers there’d be oil slick in the window. That’s why so many people in my state were dying and getting cancer. The fact is those frontline communities, it doesn’t matter what you’re paying them. It matters how you keep them safe. What do you do? And you impose restrictions on the pollutions, on the pollutants coming out of those fence line communities.

WELKER: OK, I have one final question —

TRUMP: Would he close down the oil industry — would you close down the oil industry?

BIDEN: I would transition from the oil industry, yes.

TRUMP: Oh, transition. That’s a big statement.

BIDEN: It is a big statement because I would stop —

WELKER: Why would you do that?

BIDEN: Because the oil industry pollutes, significantly — but here’s the deal —

TRUMP: I see. That’s a big statement.

BIDEN: Well, if you let me finish the statement, because it has to be replaced by renewable energy over time. Over time. And I’d stop giving to the oil industry — I’d stop giving them federal subsidies. You won’t give federal subsidies to the gas and, excuse me, to solar and wind. Why are we giving it to oil industry?

TRUMP: We actually do give it to solar and wind–

WELKER: Alright, we have one final question —

TRUMP: And that’s maybe the biggest statement in terms of business, that’s the biggest statement.

WELKER: Okay, we have one final question. Mr. President —

TRUMP: Because basically what he’s saying is he is going to destroy the oil industry. Will you remember that Texas? Will you remember that Pennsylvania? Oklahoma? Ohio?

WELKER: Vice President Biden, let me give you ten seconds to respond and then I have to get to the final question. Vice President Biden?

BIDEN: He takes everything out of context, but the point is, look, we have to move toward a net zero emissions. The first place to do that by the year 2035 is in energy production. By 2050, totally.

WELKER: Alright. One final question —

TRUMP: Is he gonna get China to do it? Is he going to get China to do it?

WELKER: No, we’re finished with this. We have to move on to our final question.

BIDEN: No, I’m going to rejoin the Paris Accord and make China abide by what they agreed to.

TRUMP: That’ll cost you $1 trillion.
